README.md, before:

## Jelly Music App (JMA)

A lightweight & elegant music interface for Jellyfin. Made to be intuitive and minimal with great attention to detail, a clutter-free web app centered on music playback. Using the Jellyfin API, it provides seamless access to your personal music library. [Demo](https://stannnnn.github.io/jelly-app/login?demo=1)
<br/>

<div>
  <img src="public/light-variant.webp" alt="Light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/dark-variant.webp" alt="Dark variant" width="49%">
</div>
<br/>

<details>
  <summary>Additional screenshots</summary>
  <br/>
  <b>Sidenav search</b>
  <p>Search for tracks, artists, albums, playlists, genres</p>
  <img src="public/search-light-variant.png" alt="Sidenav search light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/search-dark-variant.png" alt="Sidenav search dark variant" width="49%">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <b>Search results</b>
  <p>View additional search results in a dedicated window</p>
  <img src="public/search-results-light-variant.webp" alt="Search results light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/search-results-dark-variant.webp" alt="Search results dark variant" width="49%">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <b>Artists</b>
  <p>Features most played songs, albums, and other collaborations</p>
  <img src="public/artist-light-variant.webp" alt="Artist light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/artist-dark-variant.webp" alt="Artist dark variant" width="49%">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <b>Playlists</b>
  <p>Playlist view, with it's own numbered tracklist</p>
  <img src="public/playlist-light-variant.webp" alt="Playlist light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/playlist-dark-variant.webp" alt="Playlist dark variant" width="49%">
</details>

### Features

-   **Elegant & Simple Design:** A clean, clutter-free interface that makes music playback effortless and enjoyable. Built with modern tools like React for a snappy, reliable experience.
-   **Device Friendly:** Enjoy a smooth, app-like experience on mobile and desktop alike, installable as a PWA for instant access.
-   **Seamless Library Access:** Connect to your Jellyfin server to explore your personal music collection with ease.
-   **Discover Your Favorites:**
    -   **Home:** Jump back in with recently played tracks, your most-played favorites, and newly added media.
    -   **Artists:** Browse top tracks, albums, and collaborations for any artist in your library.
    -   **Playlists:** View playlists with a clear, numbered tracklist for quick navigation.
    -   **Quick Search:** Find tracks, artists, albums, playlists, or genres effortlessly with a sidenav search or dedicated results page.
    -   **Instant Mix:** Enjoy curated playlists directly from your music library on a standalone page.
-   **Queue:** Effortlessly manage and reorder tracks with the enhanced and improved Queue functionality.
-   **Crossfade:** Smoothly transition between tracks for a seamless and immersive listening experience.
-   **Preload:** Intelligently preload the next track in advance to ensure smooth, uninterrupted playback without buffering delays.
-   **Synchronized Lyrics:** Enjoy your favorite songs in a new way with a spectacular UI showing perfectly timed lyrics that appear line-by-line as you listen.
-   **Smart Fetching:** Caches your music efficiently for instant, smooth playback.
-   **Offline Sync:** Download individual songs, full albums, playlists, or artists for offline playback.
    -   **Auto-Sync:** Automatically downloads newly added tracks to any previously saved playlist, album, or artist.
    -   **Persistent Queue:** Downloads are managed with a local queue that resumes seamlessly across sessions.
    -   **Transcoded or Direct Streams:** Supports both original quality and transcoded downloads based on your selected bitrate.
-   **Docker Support:** Pull and deploy the app using a pre-built Docker image with a pre-configured Jellyfin server URL for seamless self-hosting.

### Installation

Jelly Music App can be installed as a dedicated desktop app, available on our [GitHub release page](https://github.com/Stannnnn/jelly-app/releases). You can also get the latest production build from there and deploy it on your web server by placing the archived folder's contents in a web-accessible directory.
<br/>
It's also available as a **docker image** for easy deployment, see docker details below.
<br/>
<br/>

[Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install) (`npm i -g yarn`) is required if you wish to build the project or run the development server yourself.

#### Build from Source

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Stannnnn/jelly-app.git
    ```
2. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    yarn
    ```
3. Build the production files:
    ```bash
    yarn build
    ```
4. Deploy the contents of the `dist` folder to a web-accessible directory.

Alternatively, you can run the development server directly: `yarn dev` or `yarn dev:nocache`

If you wish to use a base path for the application other than root (`/`), you must build it manually while setting `URL_BASE_PATH` to your preferred base path.

Leave the configuration as the default, or change [`config.json`](public/config.json) as needed. Configurations are explained on the [App Configuration Section](#app-configuration).
The `config.json` file can be changed directly in the built application afterwards. There is no need to rebuild if only changing a configuration variable.

### Docker

You can easily host Jelly Music App using Docker with the prebuilt image from ghcr.io:

#### Pull the docker image

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest
```

#### Run the docker image

```bash
docker run --rm -p 80:80 ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest
```

Docker image can also be run in the background by adding the -d flag `docker run -d ...`

#### Run the docker image with configuration variables

```bash
docker run --rm \
    -e DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL=https://demo.jellyfin.org/stable \
    -e LOCK_JELLYFIN_URL=false \
    -p 80:80 ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest
```

<br/>

The following are the available tags for docker:

| Tag    | Description                |
| ------ | -------------------------- |
| latest | Tracks most recent release |
| main   | Tracks the main branch     |
| vX.X.X | Version specific tags      |

E.g: `ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest`

#### Docker Container Build

You can also build Jelly Music App using Docker.

1.  Build the Docker image:

    ```bash
    docker build . --tag jelly-music-app
    ```

2.  Run the Docker container:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm -p 80:80 jelly-music-app:latest
    ```

    You can also provide configuration using environment variables.

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
        -e DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL=https://demo.jellyfin.org/stable \
        -e LOCK_JELLYFIN_URL=false \
        -p 80:80 jelly-music-app:latest
    ```

### App Configuration

App configuration can be modified by editing the `config.json` file during the build process or in the release files. When using Docker, configurations can be provided as environment variables. The available configuration options are as follows:

-   `DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL`: Sets the default Jellyfin server URL loaded on first app access if no URL is stored in Local Storage.
-   `LOCK_JELLYFIN_URL`: If set to `true`, removes the URL input field and enforces the default URL (`DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL`) for all connections, ideal for self-hosted instances tied to a single server.

### Contributing

We're open to pull requests, please merge them to the `develop` branch. If you have any suggestions or improvements, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Your contributions are welcome and appreciated!

Commit message:

Add docker-compose.yaml file #47

README.md, after:

## Jelly Music App (JMA)

A lightweight & elegant music interface for Jellyfin. Made to be intuitive and minimal with great attention to detail, a clutter-free web app centered on music playback. Using the Jellyfin API, it provides seamless access to your personal music library. [Demo](https://stannnnn.github.io/jelly-app/login?demo=1)
<br/>

<div>
  <img src="public/light-variant.webp" alt="Light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/dark-variant.webp" alt="Dark variant" width="49%">
</div>
<br/>

<details>
  <summary>Additional screenshots</summary>
  <br/>
  <b>Sidenav search</b>
  <p>Search for tracks, artists, albums, playlists, genres</p>
  <img src="public/search-light-variant.png" alt="Sidenav search light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/search-dark-variant.png" alt="Sidenav search dark variant" width="49%">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <b>Search results</b>
  <p>View additional search results in a dedicated window</p>
  <img src="public/search-results-light-variant.webp" alt="Search results light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/search-results-dark-variant.webp" alt="Search results dark variant" width="49%">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <b>Artists</b>
  <p>Features most played songs, albums, and other collaborations</p>
  <img src="public/artist-light-variant.webp" alt="Artist light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/artist-dark-variant.webp" alt="Artist dark variant" width="49%">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <b>Playlists</b>
  <p>Playlist view, with it's own numbered tracklist</p>
  <img src="public/playlist-light-variant.webp" alt="Playlist light variant" width="49%">
  <img src="public/playlist-dark-variant.webp" alt="Playlist dark variant" width="49%">
</details>

### Features

-   **Elegant & Simple Design:** A clean, clutter-free interface that makes music playback effortless and enjoyable. Built with modern tools like React for a snappy, reliable experience.
-   **Device Friendly:** Enjoy a smooth, app-like experience on mobile and desktop alike, installable as a PWA for instant access.
-   **Seamless Library Access:** Connect to your Jellyfin server to explore your personal music collection with ease.
-   **Discover Your Favorites:**
    -   **Home:** Jump back in with recently played tracks, your most-played favorites, and newly added media.
    -   **Artists:** Browse top tracks, albums, and collaborations for any artist in your library.
    -   **Playlists:** View playlists with a clear, numbered tracklist for quick navigation.
    -   **Quick Search:** Find tracks, artists, albums, playlists, or genres effortlessly with a sidenav search or dedicated results page.
    -   **Instant Mix:** Enjoy curated playlists directly from your music library on a standalone page.
-   **Queue:** Effortlessly manage and reorder tracks with the enhanced and improved Queue functionality.
-   **Crossfade:** Smoothly transition between tracks for a seamless and immersive listening experience.
-   **Preload:** Intelligently preload the next track in advance to ensure smooth, uninterrupted playback without buffering delays.
-   **Synchronized Lyrics:** Enjoy your favorite songs in a new way with a spectacular UI showing perfectly timed lyrics that appear line-by-line as you listen.
-   **Smart Fetching:** Caches your music efficiently for instant, smooth playback.
-   **Offline Sync:** Download individual songs, full albums, playlists, or artists for offline playback.
    -   **Auto-Sync:** Automatically downloads newly added tracks to any previously saved playlist, album, or artist.
    -   **Persistent Queue:** Downloads are managed with a local queue that resumes seamlessly across sessions.
    -   **Transcoded or Direct Streams:** Supports both original quality and transcoded downloads based on your selected bitrate.
-   **Docker Support:** Pull and deploy the app using a pre-built Docker image with a pre-configured Jellyfin server URL for seamless self-hosting.

### Installation

Jelly Music App can be installed as a dedicated desktop app, available on our [GitHub release page](https://github.com/Stannnnn/jelly-app/releases). You can also get the latest production build from there and deploy it on your web server by placing the archived folder's contents in a web-accessible directory.
<br/>
It's also available as a **docker image** for easy deployment, see docker details below.
<br/>
<br/>

[Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install) (`npm i -g yarn`) is required if you wish to build the project or run the development server yourself.

#### Build from Source

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Stannnnn/jelly-app.git
    ```
2. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    yarn
    ```
3. Build the production files:
    ```bash
    yarn build
    ```
4. Deploy the contents of the `dist` folder to a web-accessible directory.

Alternatively, you can run the development server directly: `yarn dev` or `yarn dev:nocache`

If you wish to use a base path for the application other than root (`/`), you must build it manually while setting `URL_BASE_PATH` to your preferred base path.

Leave the configuration as the default, or change [`config.json`](public/config.json) as needed. Configurations are explained on the [App Configuration Section](#app-configuration).
The `config.json` file can be changed directly in the built application afterwards. There is no need to rebuild if only changing a configuration variable.

### Docker

You can easily host Jelly Music App using Docker with the prebuilt image from ghcr.io:

#### Pull the docker image

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest
```

#### Run the docker image

```bash
docker run --rm -p 80:80 ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest
```

Docker image can also be run in the background by adding the -d flag `docker run -d ...`

#### Run the docker image with configuration variables

```bash
docker run --rm \
    -e DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL=https://demo.jellyfin.org/stable \
    -e LOCK_JELLYFIN_URL=false \
    -p 80:80 ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest
```

<br/>

The following are the available tags for docker:

| Tag    | Description                |
| ------ | -------------------------- |
| latest | Tracks most recent release |
| main   | Tracks the main branch     |
| vX.X.X | Version specific tags      |

E.g: `ghcr.io/stannnnn/jelly-music-app:latest`

#### Docker Container Build

You can also build Jelly Music App using Docker.

1.  Build the Docker image:

    ```bash
    docker build . --tag jelly-music-app
    ```

2.  Run the Docker container:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm -p 80:80 jelly-music-app:latest
    ```

    You can also provide configuration using environment variables.

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
        -e DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL=https://demo.jellyfin.org/stable \
        -e LOCK_JELLYFIN_URL=false \
        -p 80:80 jelly-music-app:latest
    ```

#### Docker Compose

For easier container management, you can use Docker Compose. A `docker-compose.yaml` file is provided in the repository with sensible defaults.

1.  Copy the example environment file and customize it for your setup:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

2.  Edit the `.env` file with your Jellyfin server URL and preferences:

    ```env
    JELLYAPP_PORT=80
    JELLYAPP_DEFAULT_URL=https://demo.jellyfin.org/stable
    JELLYAPP_LOCK_URL=true
    ```

3.  Start the container using Docker Compose:

    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

The `docker-compose.yaml` file uses environment variables with the following defaults:

-   `JELLYAPP_PORT`: External port to expose (default: `80`)
-   `JELLYAPP_DEFAULT_URL`: Default Jellyfin server URL (default: `https://demo.jellyfin.org/stable`)
-   `JELLYAPP_LOCK_URL`: Lock the Jellyfin URL input (default: `false`)

### App Configuration

App configuration can be modified by editing the `config.json` file during the build process or in the release files. When using Docker, configurations can be provided as environment variables. The available configuration options are as follows:

-   `DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL`: Sets the default Jellyfin server URL loaded on first app access if no URL is stored in Local Storage.
-   `LOCK_JELLYFIN_URL`: If set to `true`, removes the URL input field and enforces the default URL (`DEFAULT_JELLYFIN_URL`) for all connections, ideal for self-hosted instances tied to a single server.

### Contributing

We're open to pull requests, please merge them to the `develop` branch. If you have any suggestions or improvements, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Your contributions are welcome and appreciated!
